[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: There are ways to
extrapolate composition to a very general
sense.
And we are not gonna try to go very
deep down that rabbit hole cuz there's
actually a whole bunch of complexity here.
That I have not personally found
to be very useful in my programs.
But I do just want to take you
slightly into the rabbit hole, so
you understand a little bit
of how that mindset works.
What if I wanted to create myself
a slightly more generic utility,
a composed utility, or rather I'll
call it a composed you two utility.
Which composes just two functions and
it makes some assumptions about
what arguments are passed.
What if I wanted to make that
sort of reusable utility?
I could declare compose two function
as I'm doing here on line nine,
it takes a function one and
a function two.
And you'll notice that the first thing
it does is create a new function then it
returns back.
Uh-oh, that's a different pattern
than we've seen so far yet.
That's a pattern that's gonna harken
forward to what we're talking about when
we talk about closure.
The ability for comp to continue to
access fn1 and fn2 at a later time,
that's closure.
So we'll see that a little bit later,
but we are making a function as
a result of calling compose2.
We haven't called fn1 and fn2 yet,
we've simply made a function that
will call them at a later time.
Now, I have an args variable here and
I'm doing some of that crazy,
crappy JavaScript nonsense.
That we have to do to turn the arguments
object into a real arguments array.
Sucks, right?
There's hope, I promise.
On the next slide we're gonna
see there's some hope here, but
that's the old-school
ugly way of doing it.
And then we have arguments.shift and
arguments.shift.
I'm simply taking the first two off of
the array and passing them into fn1.
And its result and
then I'm taking the third argument and
passing in to fn2, okay?
This was a way of cheating,
saving some space for some slides.
You might've chosen to sign those
out into separate variables and
pass them in,
that would've been entirely fine.
But I just making array and
then I shift some things off that array.
And you notice here that
I made some assumptions,
I assumed that you passed in two and
only two functions.
And that you passed in three and
only three arguments and
that you wanted the first two
to got the second function.
And then the result of that plus the third
one to go to the first function,
I made some assumptions here.
Now, when you choose to
make utilities like this,
you can create any sort of utility
your brain can come up with.
What a functional programmer does is
look at principles of mathematics,
principles of programming logic.
And say what are the most common
patterns for how people compose stuff?
And in fact,
all functional programming is literally,
it's a turtles all the way
down sort of thing.
It's, at this most basic level,
let me define a pattern that's
really very commonly used.
Here's how we compose some stuff and
then we make a slightly higher wrapper.
And that's how those two
things get composed.
And then, now that I have things of that,
when I want two of those to compose.
That's how they normally compose,
that's really all of what
functional programming is.
We can dive much deeper down that
rabbit hole and spend our whole day.
And probably not get a whole
lot of practical stuff for
our JavaScript programming.
So I just wanted to tease you with that
notion that you can create your own
compositions.
But when you do that, you wanna look for
ways that it makes your life easier.
Don't make a pattern just
simply because it looks cool or
you've learned some new trick or
something like that.
Make one of these compositional patterns.
Because it's something that you're
doing over and over and over again and
it's gonna help you.
And by the way,
you might end up discovering for
yourself some of those very
common compositional patterns.
That have those fancy names,
like monads and functors and
all that other stuff, okay?
Cuz that's all they've done
in functional programming,
is observe the most common of those
patterns and make utilities for them.
All right, so compose2 we pass
in the function multAndSum.
And then when we call multAndSum
down there on line 21,
you'll notice that it does correctly for
us.
It produces our 17 value resolved.
>> Kyle Simpson: Any questions
about composition so far?
>> Speaker 2: All right,
well I've got a question.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Why do we turn a function
comp instead of just a function?
>> Kyle Simpson: Why did I give it a name?
Yeah, basically that's
a side thing in JavaScript.
I tend to not like anonymous functions
in fact I very much don't like anonymous
function expressions.
I've covered that in the advance
JavaScript course as well as my books,
so I won't dive too deeply into it.
But a named function expression is always
more preferable to a anonymous function
expression.
And I know there's probably a bunch
of people listening that'll be like.
[SOUND] I don't like you, you should
use arrow functions or whatever.
That's a whole other side thing that
we don't want to get into today.
I just simply gave it a name because in
a stack trace that word will show up if
I have an error.
If I didn't give it a name it wouldn't
show up, that's a basic point.
You'll see a whole bunch of places
where I don't give them names.
Cuz I'm cheating or I'm trying to save
space on the slides or anything like that.
So, it's definitely a do as I say [LAUGH],
not as I do sort of thing.
But, I do try to have the discipline of
always naming my function expressions,
yes?
>> Speaker 3: Actually,
just a quick comment.
On your previous slides you add
five plus the multiplication and
then everyplace you're actually
adding the five afterwards.
>> Kyle Simpson: Just in my comment I say
it in the opposite and the reason I do
that is to motivate Why the parenthesis
are necessary for order of operation.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: I wanted the numbers to
be strictly increasing, three, four,
five, because that's pleasant to people.
So that's basic.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes.
You're right.
Is there a question?
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: There is question
about random values.
It seems even wrapping those
wouldn't make them pure,
it's like wrapping
a random number generator?
Would you be able to-
>> Kyle Simpson: [SOUND], is a random
number generator a pure utility?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: [LAUGH]
That is also going down a rabbit hole.
So, Pseudo random number generators
are based upon a seed, which is a state.
And if that state can be repeated in
some way, if it is a seatable system.
And it changes based upon that seed,
that's an impure system.
So, I guess at a very basic
sense I'd have to tell you yes,
random numbers would be impure.
>> Speaker 4: And
then, they were just as curious about.
Do you think the functional approach
better fits the whole functions as values
aspect of JavaScript?
>> Kyle Simpson: Say the question again,
I'm sorry.
>> Speaker 4: Do you think a functional
approach better fits the whole functions
as values aspect of JavaScript?
>> Kyle Simpson: [SOUND], okay, so
functions is value is when
most people say that.
They're talking about functions
as first class citizens,
first class values with closure.
And the question then is, is closure more
closely related to functional programming?
Absolutely, closure's a very important
piece of functional programming.
On the other hand, I have used a ton
of closure without even remotely having
programs that look like
functional programming.
So closure is not only
a functional programming concept.
But is absolutely, positively, without
a doubt one of the most important things
that comes from functional programming.